geometry.rst, before:

Geometry
========

Create a Point
--------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    point = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPoint)
    point.AddPoint(1198054.34, 648493.09)
    print point.ExportToWkt()

Create a LineString
-------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    line = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLineString)
    line.AddPoint(1116651.439379124, 637392.6969887456)
    line.AddPoint(1188804.0108498496, 652655.7409537067)
    line.AddPoint(1226730.3625203592, 634155.0816022386) 
    line.AddPoint(1281307.30760719, 636467.6640211721)
    print line.ExportToWkt()

Create a Polygon
----------------

.. code-block:: python
    
    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create ring
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424) 
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387) 
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)

    # Create polygon
    poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly.AddGeometry(ring)

    print poly.ExportToWkt()

Create a Polygon with holes
----------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create outer ring
    outRing = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    outRing.AddPoint(1154115.274565847, 686419.4442701361)
    outRing.AddPoint(1154115.274565847, 653118.2574374934)
    outRing.AddPoint(1165678.1866605144, 653118.2574374934)
    outRing.AddPoint(1165678.1866605144, 686419.4442701361)
    outRing.AddPoint(1154115.274565847, 686419.4442701361)

    # Create inner ring
    innerRing = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    innerRing.AddPoint(1149490.1097279799, 691044.6091080031)
    innerRing.AddPoint(1149490.1097279799, 648030.5761158396)
    innerRing.AddPoint(1191579.1097525698, 648030.5761158396)
    innerRing.AddPoint(1191579.1097525698, 691044.6091080031)
    innerRing.AddPoint(1149490.1097279799, 691044.6091080031)

    # Create polygon
    poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly.AddGeometry(outRing)
    poly.AddGeometry(innerRing)

    print poly.ExportToWkt()

Create a MultiPoint
-------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    multipoint = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbMultiPoint)

    point1 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPoint)
    point1.AddPoint(1251243.7361610543, 598078.7958668759)
    multipoint.AddGeometry(point1)

    point2 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPoint)
    point2.AddPoint(1240605.8570339603, 601778.9277371694)
    multipoint.AddGeometry(point2)

    point3 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPoint)
    point3.AddPoint(1250318.7031934808, 606404.0925750365)
    multipoint.AddGeometry(point3)

    print multipoint.ExportToWkt()

Create a MultiLineString
------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    multiline = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbMultiLineString)

    line1 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLineString)
    line1.AddPoint(1214242.4174581182, 617041.9717021306)
    line1.AddPoint(1234593.142744733, 629529.9167643716)
    multiline.AddGeometry(line1)

    line1 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLineString)
    line1.AddPoint(1184641.3624957693, 626754.8178616514)
    line1.AddPoint(1219792.6152635587, 606866.6090588232)
    multiline.AddGeometry(line1)

    print multiline.ExportToWkt()

Create a MultiPolygon
---------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    multipolygon = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbMultiPolygon)

    # Create ring #1
    ring1 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring1.AddPoint(1204067.0548148106, 634617.5980860253)
    ring1.AddPoint(1204067.0548148106, 620742.1035724243)
    ring1.AddPoint(1215167.4504256917, 620742.1035724243)
    ring1.AddPoint(1215167.4504256917, 634617.5980860253)
    ring1.AddPoint(1204067.0548148106, 634617.5980860253) 

    # Create polygon #1
    poly1 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly1.AddGeometry(ring1)
    multipolygon.AddGeometry(poly1)

    # Create ring #2
    ring2 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring2.AddPoint(1179553.6811741155, 647105.5431482664)
    ring2.AddPoint(1179553.6811741155, 626292.3013778647) 
    ring2.AddPoint(1194354.20865529, 626292.3013778647)
    ring2.AddPoint(1194354.20865529, 647105.5431482664) 
    ring2.AddPoint(1179553.6811741155, 647105.5431482664)

    # Create polygon #2
    poly2 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly2.AddGeometry(ring2)
    multipolygon.AddGeometry(poly2)

    print multipolygon.ExportToWkt()

Create a GeometryCollection
---------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create a geometry collection
    geomcol =  ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbGeometryCollection)

    # Add a point
    point = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPoint)
    point.AddPoint(-122.23, 47.09)
    geomcol.AddGeometry(point)

    # Add a line
    line = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLineString)
    line.AddPoint(-122.60, 47.14)
    line.AddPoint(-122.48, 47.23)
    geomcol.AddGeometry(line)

    print geomcol.ExportToWkt()

Create Geometry from WKT
------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "POINT (1120351.5712494177 741921.4223245403)"
    point = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    print "%d,%d" % (point.GetX(), point.GetY())

Create Geometry from GeoJSON
----------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    geojson = """{"type":"Point","coordinates":[108420.33,753808.59]}"""
    point = ogr.CreateGeometryFromJson(geojson)
    print "%d,%d" % (point.GetX(), point.GetY())

Create Geometry from GML
------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    gml = """<gml:Point xmlns:gml="http://www.opengis.net/gml"><gml:coordinates>108420.33,753808.59</gml:coordinates></gml:Point>"""
    point = ogr.CreateGeometryFromGML(gml)
    print "%d,%d" % (point.GetX(), point.GetY())

Create Geometry from WKB
------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    from base64 import b64decode

    wkb = b64decode("AIAAAAFBMkfmVwo9cUEjylouFHrhAAAAAAAAAAA=")
    point = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkb(wkb)
    print "%d,%d" % (point.GetX(), point.GetY())

Count Points in a Geometry
--------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "LINESTRING (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    print "Geometry has %i points" % (geom.GetPointCount())

Count Geometries in a Geometry
-------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "MULTIPOINT (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    print "Geometry has %i geometries" % (geom.GetGeometryCount())

Iterate over Geometries in a Geometry
-------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "MULTIPOINT (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    for i in range(0, geom.GetGeometryCount()):
        g = geom.GetGeometryRef(i)
        print "%i). %s" %(i, g.ExportToWkt())


Iterate over Points in a Geometry
-------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "LINESTRING (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    for i in range(0, geom.GetPointCount()):
        # GetPoint returns a tuple not a Geometry
        pt = geom.GetPoint(i)
        print "%i). POINT (%d %d)" %(i, pt[0], pt[1])

Buffer a Geometry
-----------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "POINT (1198054.34 648493.09)"
    pt = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    bufferDistance = 500
    poly = pt.Buffer(bufferDistance)
    print "%s buffered by %d is %s" % (pt.ExportToWkt(), bufferDistance, poly.ExportToWkt())

Calculate Envelope of a Geometry
--------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "LINESTRING (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    # Get Envelope returns a tuple (minX, maxX, minY, maxY)
    env = geom.GetEnvelope()
    print "minX: %d, minY: %d, maxX: %d, maxY: %d" %(env[0],env[2],env[1],env[3])


Calculate the Area of a Geometry
--------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "POLYGON ((1162440.5712740074 672081.4332727483, 1162440.5712740074 647105.5431482664, 1195279.2416228633 647105.5431482664, 1195279.2416228633 672081.4332727483, 1162440.5712740074 672081.4332727483))"
    poly = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    print "Area = %d" % poly.GetArea()

Calculate the Length of a Geometry
----------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "LINESTRING (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    print "Length = %d" % geom.Length()

Get the geometry type (as a string) from a Geometry
---------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkts = [
        "POINT (1198054.34 648493.09)",
        "LINESTRING (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)",
        "POLYGON ((1162440.5712740074 672081.4332727483, 1162440.5712740074 647105.5431482664, 1195279.2416228633 647105.5431482664, 1195279.2416228633 672081.4332727483, 1162440.5712740074 672081.4332727483))"
    ]

    for wkt in wkts:
        geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
        print geom.GetGeometryName()

Calculate intersection between two Geometries
---------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt1 = "POLYGON ((1208064.271243039 624154.6783778917, 1208064.271243039 601260.9785661874, 1231345.9998651114 601260.9785661874, 1231345.9998651114 624154.6783778917, 1208064.271243039 624154.6783778917))"
    wkt2 = "POLYGON ((1199915.6662253144 633079.3410163528, 1199915.6662253144 614453.958118695, 1219317.1067437078 614453.958118695, 1219317.1067437078 633079.3410163528, 1199915.6662253144 633079.3410163528)))"

    poly1 = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt1)
    poly2 = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt2)

    intersection = poly1.Intersection(poly2)

    print intersection.ExportToWkt()

Calculate union between two Geometries
--------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt1 = "POLYGON ((1208064.271243039 624154.6783778917, 1208064.271243039 601260.9785661874, 1231345.9998651114 601260.9785661874, 1231345.9998651114 624154.6783778917, 1208064.271243039 624154.6783778917))"
    wkt2 = "POLYGON ((1199915.6662253144 633079.3410163528, 1199915.6662253144 614453.958118695, 1219317.1067437078 614453.958118695, 1219317.1067437078 633079.3410163528, 1199915.6662253144 633079.3410163528)))"

    poly1 = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt1)
    poly2 = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt2)

    union = poly1.Union(poly2)

    print poly1
    print poly2
    print union.ExportToWkt()

Write Geometry to GeoJSON
-------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create test polygon
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424)
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly.AddGeometry(ring)

    # Create the output Driver
    outDriver = ogr.GetDriverByName('GeoJSON')

    # Create the output GeoJSON
    outDataSource = outDriver.CreateDataSource('test.geojson')
    outLayer = outDataSource.CreateLayer('test.geojson', geom_type=ogr.wkbPolygon )

    # Get the output Layer's Feature Definition
    featureDefn = outLayer.GetLayerDefn()

    # create a new feature
    outFeature = ogr.Feature(featureDefn)

    # Set new geometry
    outFeature.SetGeometry(poly)

    # Add new feature to output Layer
    outLayer.CreateFeature(outFeature)

    # destroy the feature
    outFeature.Destroy

    # Close DataSources
    outDataSource.Destroy()

Write Geometry to WKT
---------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create test polygon
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424)
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    geom_poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    geom_poly.AddGeometry(ring)

    # Export geometry to WKT
    wkt = geom_poly.ExportToWkt()
    print wkt

Write Geometry to KML
---------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create test polygon
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424)
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    geom_poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    geom_poly.AddGeometry(ring)
    
    kml = geom_poly.ExportToKML()
    print kml

Write Geometry to WKB
---------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create test polygon
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424)
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    geom_poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    geom_poly.AddGeometry(ring)

    # Export geometry to WKT
    wkb = geom_poly.ExportToWkb()
    print wkb
	
Quarter polygon and create centroids
---------------------

    This recipe quarters a polygon and creates the centroid of the four quarters 

.. code-block:: python

    import ogr
	
	# Given a test polygon
    poly_Wkt= "POLYGON((-107.42631019589980212 40.11971708125970082,-107.42455436683293613 40.12061219666851741,-107.42020981542387403 40.12004414402532859,-107.41789122063043749 40.12149008687303819,-107.41419947746419439 40.11811617239460048,-107.41915181585792993 40.11761695654455906,-107.41998470913324581 40.11894245264452508,-107.42203317637793702 40.1184088144647788,-107.42430674991324224 40.1174448122981957,-107.42430674991324224 40.1174448122981957,-107.42631019589980212 40.11971708125970082))"
    geom_poly = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(poly_Wkt)
	
.. image:: images/quarter1.png
.. code-block:: python


    # Create 4 square polygons
    geom_poly_envelope = geom_poly.GetEnvelope()
    minX = geom_poly_envelope[0] 
    minY = geom_poly_envelope[2] 
    maxX = geom_poly_envelope[1] 
    maxY = geom_poly_envelope[3]

    '''
    coord0----coord1----coord2
    |           |           |
    coord3----coord4----coord5
    |           |           |
    coord6----coord7----coord8
    '''
    coord0 = minX, maxY
    coord1 = minX+(maxX-minX)/2, maxY
    coord2 = maxX, maxY
    coord3 = minX, minY+(maxY-minY)/2
    coord4 = minX+(maxX-minX)/2, minY+(maxY-minY)/2
    coord5 = maxX, minY+(maxY-minY)/2
    coord6 = minX, minY
    coord7 = minX+(maxX-minX)/2, minY
    coord8 = maxX, minY

    ringTopLeft = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ringTopLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord0)
    ringTopLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord1)
    ringTopLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord4)
    ringTopLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord3)
    ringTopLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord0)
    polyTopLeft = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    polyTopLeft.AddGeometry(ringTopLeft)
	

    ringTopRight = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ringTopRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord1)
    ringTopRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord2)
    ringTopRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord5)
    ringTopRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord4)
    ringTopRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord1)
    polyTopRight = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    polyTopRight.AddGeometry(ringTopRight)
	

    ringBottomLeft = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ringBottomLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord3)
    ringBottomLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord4)
    ringBottomLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord7)
    ringBottomLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord6)
    ringBottomLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord3)
    polyBottomLeft = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    polyBottomLeft.AddGeometry(ringBottomLeft)


    ringBottomRight = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ringBottomRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord4)
    ringBottomRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord5)
    ringBottomRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord8)
    ringBottomRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord7)
    ringBottomRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord4)
    polyBottomRight = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    polyBottomRight.AddGeometry(ringBottomRight)

.. image:: images/quarter4.png
.. code-block:: python	 

    # Intersect 4 squares polygons with test polygon
    quaterPolyTopLeft = polyTopLeft.Intersection(geom_poly)
    quaterPolyTopRight =  polyTopRight.Intersection(geom_poly)
    quaterPolyBottomLeft =  polyBottomLeft.Intersection(geom_poly)
    quaterPolyBottomRight =  polyBottomRight.Intersection(geom_poly)
	
.. image:: images/quarter6.png
.. code-block:: python


    # Create centroids of each intersected polygon
    centroidTopLeft = quaterPolyTopLeft.Centroid()
    centroidTopRight =  quaterPolyTopRight.Centroid()
    centroidBottomLeft =  quaterPolyBottomLeft.Centroid()
    centroidBottomRight =  quaterPolyBottomRight.Centroid()

.. image:: images/quarter9.png

Commit message:

add second option to create a GeoJSON

geometry.rst, after:

Geometry
========

Create a Point
--------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    point = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPoint)
    point.AddPoint(1198054.34, 648493.09)
    print point.ExportToWkt()

Create a LineString
-------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    line = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLineString)
    line.AddPoint(1116651.439379124, 637392.6969887456)
    line.AddPoint(1188804.0108498496, 652655.7409537067)
    line.AddPoint(1226730.3625203592, 634155.0816022386) 
    line.AddPoint(1281307.30760719, 636467.6640211721)
    print line.ExportToWkt()

Create a Polygon
----------------

.. code-block:: python
    
    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create ring
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424) 
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387) 
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)

    # Create polygon
    poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly.AddGeometry(ring)

    print poly.ExportToWkt()

Create a Polygon with holes
----------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create outer ring
    outRing = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    outRing.AddPoint(1154115.274565847, 686419.4442701361)
    outRing.AddPoint(1154115.274565847, 653118.2574374934)
    outRing.AddPoint(1165678.1866605144, 653118.2574374934)
    outRing.AddPoint(1165678.1866605144, 686419.4442701361)
    outRing.AddPoint(1154115.274565847, 686419.4442701361)

    # Create inner ring
    innerRing = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    innerRing.AddPoint(1149490.1097279799, 691044.6091080031)
    innerRing.AddPoint(1149490.1097279799, 648030.5761158396)
    innerRing.AddPoint(1191579.1097525698, 648030.5761158396)
    innerRing.AddPoint(1191579.1097525698, 691044.6091080031)
    innerRing.AddPoint(1149490.1097279799, 691044.6091080031)

    # Create polygon
    poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly.AddGeometry(outRing)
    poly.AddGeometry(innerRing)

    print poly.ExportToWkt()

Create a MultiPoint
-------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    multipoint = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbMultiPoint)

    point1 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPoint)
    point1.AddPoint(1251243.7361610543, 598078.7958668759)
    multipoint.AddGeometry(point1)

    point2 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPoint)
    point2.AddPoint(1240605.8570339603, 601778.9277371694)
    multipoint.AddGeometry(point2)

    point3 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPoint)
    point3.AddPoint(1250318.7031934808, 606404.0925750365)
    multipoint.AddGeometry(point3)

    print multipoint.ExportToWkt()

Create a MultiLineString
------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    multiline = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbMultiLineString)

    line1 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLineString)
    line1.AddPoint(1214242.4174581182, 617041.9717021306)
    line1.AddPoint(1234593.142744733, 629529.9167643716)
    multiline.AddGeometry(line1)

    line1 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLineString)
    line1.AddPoint(1184641.3624957693, 626754.8178616514)
    line1.AddPoint(1219792.6152635587, 606866.6090588232)
    multiline.AddGeometry(line1)

    print multiline.ExportToWkt()

Create a MultiPolygon
---------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    multipolygon = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbMultiPolygon)

    # Create ring #1
    ring1 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring1.AddPoint(1204067.0548148106, 634617.5980860253)
    ring1.AddPoint(1204067.0548148106, 620742.1035724243)
    ring1.AddPoint(1215167.4504256917, 620742.1035724243)
    ring1.AddPoint(1215167.4504256917, 634617.5980860253)
    ring1.AddPoint(1204067.0548148106, 634617.5980860253) 

    # Create polygon #1
    poly1 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly1.AddGeometry(ring1)
    multipolygon.AddGeometry(poly1)

    # Create ring #2
    ring2 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring2.AddPoint(1179553.6811741155, 647105.5431482664)
    ring2.AddPoint(1179553.6811741155, 626292.3013778647) 
    ring2.AddPoint(1194354.20865529, 626292.3013778647)
    ring2.AddPoint(1194354.20865529, 647105.5431482664) 
    ring2.AddPoint(1179553.6811741155, 647105.5431482664)

    # Create polygon #2
    poly2 = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly2.AddGeometry(ring2)
    multipolygon.AddGeometry(poly2)

    print multipolygon.ExportToWkt()

Create a GeometryCollection
---------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create a geometry collection
    geomcol =  ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbGeometryCollection)

    # Add a point
    point = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPoint)
    point.AddPoint(-122.23, 47.09)
    geomcol.AddGeometry(point)

    # Add a line
    line = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLineString)
    line.AddPoint(-122.60, 47.14)
    line.AddPoint(-122.48, 47.23)
    geomcol.AddGeometry(line)

    print geomcol.ExportToWkt()

Create Geometry from WKT
------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "POINT (1120351.5712494177 741921.4223245403)"
    point = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    print "%d,%d" % (point.GetX(), point.GetY())

Create Geometry from GeoJSON
----------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    geojson = """{"type":"Point","coordinates":[108420.33,753808.59]}"""
    point = ogr.CreateGeometryFromJson(geojson)
    print "%d,%d" % (point.GetX(), point.GetY())

Create Geometry from GML
------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    gml = """<gml:Point xmlns:gml="http://www.opengis.net/gml"><gml:coordinates>108420.33,753808.59</gml:coordinates></gml:Point>"""
    point = ogr.CreateGeometryFromGML(gml)
    print "%d,%d" % (point.GetX(), point.GetY())

Create Geometry from WKB
------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    from base64 import b64decode

    wkb = b64decode("AIAAAAFBMkfmVwo9cUEjylouFHrhAAAAAAAAAAA=")
    point = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkb(wkb)
    print "%d,%d" % (point.GetX(), point.GetY())

Count Points in a Geometry
--------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "LINESTRING (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    print "Geometry has %i points" % (geom.GetPointCount())

Count Geometries in a Geometry
-------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "MULTIPOINT (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    print "Geometry has %i geometries" % (geom.GetGeometryCount())

Iterate over Geometries in a Geometry
-------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "MULTIPOINT (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    for i in range(0, geom.GetGeometryCount()):
        g = geom.GetGeometryRef(i)
        print "%i). %s" %(i, g.ExportToWkt())


Iterate over Points in a Geometry
-------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "LINESTRING (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    for i in range(0, geom.GetPointCount()):
        # GetPoint returns a tuple not a Geometry
        pt = geom.GetPoint(i)
        print "%i). POINT (%d %d)" %(i, pt[0], pt[1])

Buffer a Geometry
-----------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "POINT (1198054.34 648493.09)"
    pt = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    bufferDistance = 500
    poly = pt.Buffer(bufferDistance)
    print "%s buffered by %d is %s" % (pt.ExportToWkt(), bufferDistance, poly.ExportToWkt())

Calculate Envelope of a Geometry
--------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "LINESTRING (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    # Get Envelope returns a tuple (minX, maxX, minY, maxY)
    env = geom.GetEnvelope()
    print "minX: %d, minY: %d, maxX: %d, maxY: %d" %(env[0],env[2],env[1],env[3])


Calculate the Area of a Geometry
--------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "POLYGON ((1162440.5712740074 672081.4332727483, 1162440.5712740074 647105.5431482664, 1195279.2416228633 647105.5431482664, 1195279.2416228633 672081.4332727483, 1162440.5712740074 672081.4332727483))"
    poly = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    print "Area = %d" % poly.GetArea()

Calculate the Length of a Geometry
----------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt = "LINESTRING (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)"
    geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
    print "Length = %d" % geom.Length()

Get the geometry type (as a string) from a Geometry
---------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkts = [
        "POINT (1198054.34 648493.09)",
        "LINESTRING (1181866.263593049 615654.4222507705, 1205917.1207499576 623979.7189589312, 1227192.8790041457 643405.4112779726, 1224880.2965852122 665143.6860159477)",
        "POLYGON ((1162440.5712740074 672081.4332727483, 1162440.5712740074 647105.5431482664, 1195279.2416228633 647105.5431482664, 1195279.2416228633 672081.4332727483, 1162440.5712740074 672081.4332727483))"
    ]

    for wkt in wkts:
        geom = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt)
        print geom.GetGeometryName()

Calculate intersection between two Geometries
---------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt1 = "POLYGON ((1208064.271243039 624154.6783778917, 1208064.271243039 601260.9785661874, 1231345.9998651114 601260.9785661874, 1231345.9998651114 624154.6783778917, 1208064.271243039 624154.6783778917))"
    wkt2 = "POLYGON ((1199915.6662253144 633079.3410163528, 1199915.6662253144 614453.958118695, 1219317.1067437078 614453.958118695, 1219317.1067437078 633079.3410163528, 1199915.6662253144 633079.3410163528)))"

    poly1 = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt1)
    poly2 = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt2)

    intersection = poly1.Intersection(poly2)

    print intersection.ExportToWkt()

Calculate union between two Geometries
--------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    wkt1 = "POLYGON ((1208064.271243039 624154.6783778917, 1208064.271243039 601260.9785661874, 1231345.9998651114 601260.9785661874, 1231345.9998651114 624154.6783778917, 1208064.271243039 624154.6783778917))"
    wkt2 = "POLYGON ((1199915.6662253144 633079.3410163528, 1199915.6662253144 614453.958118695, 1219317.1067437078 614453.958118695, 1219317.1067437078 633079.3410163528, 1199915.6662253144 633079.3410163528)))"

    poly1 = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt1)
    poly2 = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(wkt2)

    union = poly1.Union(poly2)

    print poly1
    print poly2
    print union.ExportToWkt()

Write Geometry to GeoJSON
-------------------------

There are two options to create a GeoJSON from a geometry.

You can either create a new GeoJSON file or simply export the geometry to Json and print it. Both options are explained below.

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create test polygon
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424)
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly.AddGeometry(ring)

    # Create the output Driver
    outDriver = ogr.GetDriverByName('GeoJSON')

    # Create the output GeoJSON
    outDataSource = outDriver.CreateDataSource('test.geojson')
    outLayer = outDataSource.CreateLayer('test.geojson', geom_type=ogr.wkbPolygon )

    # Get the output Layer's Feature Definition
    featureDefn = outLayer.GetLayerDefn()

    # create a new feature
    outFeature = ogr.Feature(featureDefn)

    # Set new geometry
    outFeature.SetGeometry(poly)

    # Add new feature to output Layer
    outLayer.CreateFeature(outFeature)

    # destroy the feature
    outFeature.Destroy

    # Close DataSources
    outDataSource.Destroy()
    
.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create test polygon
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424)
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly.AddGeometry(ring)
    
    geojson = poly.ExportToJSON()
    print geojson

Write Geometry to WKT
---------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create test polygon
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424)
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    geom_poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    geom_poly.AddGeometry(ring)

    # Export geometry to WKT
    wkt = geom_poly.ExportToWkt()
    print wkt

Write Geometry to KML
---------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create test polygon
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424)
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    geom_poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    geom_poly.AddGeometry(ring)
    
    kml = geom_poly.ExportToKML()
    print kml

Write Geometry to WKB
---------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr

    # Create test polygon
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    ring.AddPoint(1161053.0218226474, 667456.2684348812)
    ring.AddPoint(1214704.933941905, 641092.8288590391)
    ring.AddPoint(1228580.428455506, 682719.3123998424)
    ring.AddPoint(1218405.0658121984, 721108.1805541387)
    ring.AddPoint(1179091.1646903288, 712782.8838459781)
    geom_poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    geom_poly.AddGeometry(ring)

    # Export geometry to WKT
    wkb = geom_poly.ExportToWkb()
    print wkb
	
Quarter polygon and create centroids
---------------------

    This recipe quarters a polygon and creates the centroid of the four quarters 

.. code-block:: python

    import ogr
	
	# Given a test polygon
    poly_Wkt= "POLYGON((-107.42631019589980212 40.11971708125970082,-107.42455436683293613 40.12061219666851741,-107.42020981542387403 40.12004414402532859,-107.41789122063043749 40.12149008687303819,-107.41419947746419439 40.11811617239460048,-107.41915181585792993 40.11761695654455906,-107.41998470913324581 40.11894245264452508,-107.42203317637793702 40.1184088144647788,-107.42430674991324224 40.1174448122981957,-107.42430674991324224 40.1174448122981957,-107.42631019589980212 40.11971708125970082))"
    geom_poly = ogr.CreateGeometryFromWkt(poly_Wkt)
	
.. image:: images/quarter1.png
.. code-block:: python


    # Create 4 square polygons
    geom_poly_envelope = geom_poly.GetEnvelope()
    minX = geom_poly_envelope[0] 
    minY = geom_poly_envelope[2] 
    maxX = geom_poly_envelope[1] 
    maxY = geom_poly_envelope[3]

    '''
    coord0----coord1----coord2
    |           |           |
    coord3----coord4----coord5
    |           |           |
    coord6----coord7----coord8
    '''
    coord0 = minX, maxY
    coord1 = minX+(maxX-minX)/2, maxY
    coord2 = maxX, maxY
    coord3 = minX, minY+(maxY-minY)/2
    coord4 = minX+(maxX-minX)/2, minY+(maxY-minY)/2
    coord5 = maxX, minY+(maxY-minY)/2
    coord6 = minX, minY
    coord7 = minX+(maxX-minX)/2, minY
    coord8 = maxX, minY

    ringTopLeft = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ringTopLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord0)
    ringTopLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord1)
    ringTopLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord4)
    ringTopLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord3)
    ringTopLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord0)
    polyTopLeft = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    polyTopLeft.AddGeometry(ringTopLeft)
	

    ringTopRight = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ringTopRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord1)
    ringTopRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord2)
    ringTopRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord5)
    ringTopRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord4)
    ringTopRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord1)
    polyTopRight = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    polyTopRight.AddGeometry(ringTopRight)
	

    ringBottomLeft = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ringBottomLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord3)
    ringBottomLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord4)
    ringBottomLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord7)
    ringBottomLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord6)
    ringBottomLeft.AddPoint_2D(*coord3)
    polyBottomLeft = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    polyBottomLeft.AddGeometry(ringBottomLeft)


    ringBottomRight = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ringBottomRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord4)
    ringBottomRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord5)
    ringBottomRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord8)
    ringBottomRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord7)
    ringBottomRight.AddPoint_2D(*coord4)
    polyBottomRight = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    polyBottomRight.AddGeometry(ringBottomRight)

.. image:: images/quarter4.png
.. code-block:: python	 

    # Intersect 4 squares polygons with test polygon
    quaterPolyTopLeft = polyTopLeft.Intersection(geom_poly)
    quaterPolyTopRight =  polyTopRight.Intersection(geom_poly)
    quaterPolyBottomLeft =  polyBottomLeft.Intersection(geom_poly)
    quaterPolyBottomRight =  polyBottomRight.Intersection(geom_poly)
	
.. image:: images/quarter6.png
.. code-block:: python


    # Create centroids of each intersected polygon
    centroidTopLeft = quaterPolyTopLeft.Centroid()
    centroidTopRight =  quaterPolyTopRight.Centroid()
    centroidBottomLeft =  quaterPolyBottomLeft.Centroid()
    centroidBottomRight =  quaterPolyBottomRight.Centroid()

.. image:: images/quarter9.png
