index.rst, before:

.. Python GDAL/OGR Cookbook documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon May 13 08:53:10 2013.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to the Python GDAL/OGR Cookbook!
========================================

This cookbook has simple code snippets on how to use the Python GDAL/OGR API.  The web site
is a project at `GitHub <https://github.com/pcjericks/py-gdalogr-cookbook>`_ and served by Github Pages.  If you find missing recipes or mistakes 
in existing recipes please add an issue to the `issue tracker <https://github.com/pcjericks/py-gdalogr-cookbook/issues?state=open>`_.

We heavily relied on Chris Garrard's excellent `Geoprocessing with Python using Open Source GIS <http://www.gis.usu.edu/~chrisg/python/2009/>`_
and the official `GDAL/OGR Python documentation <http://gdal.org/python/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   
   geometry.rst
   vector_layers.rst
   raster_layers.rst
   projection.rst
   gotchas.rst
   
Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

fix for issue #83, adding links to GDAL/OGR Python API Docs

index.rst, after:

.. Python GDAL/OGR Cookbook documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon May 13 08:53:10 2013.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to the Python GDAL/OGR Cookbook!
========================================

This cookbook has simple code snippets on how to use the Python GDAL/OGR API.  The web site
is a project at `GitHub <https://github.com/pcjericks/py-gdalogr-cookbook>`_ and served by Github Pages.  If you find missing recipes or mistakes 
in existing recipes please add an issue to the `issue tracker <https://github.com/pcjericks/py-gdalogr-cookbook/issues?state=open>`_.

For a detailed description of the whole Python GDAL/OGR API, see the useful `API docs <http://gdal.org/python/>`_.

We heavily relied on Chris Garrard's excellent `Geoprocessing with Python using Open Source GIS <http://www.gis.usu.edu/~chrisg/python/2009/>`_
and the official `GDAL/OGR Python documentation <http://gdal.org/python/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   
   geometry.rst
   vector_layers.rst
   raster_layers.rst
   projection.rst
   gotchas.rst
   
Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
