layers.rst, before:

Layers
=============

Is Ogr Installed
----------------

.. code-block:: python

    try:
      from osgeo import ogr
      print 'Import of ogr from osgeo worked.  Hurray!\n'
    except:
      print 'Import of ogr from osgeo failed\n\n'

View Auto Generated Ogr Help
------------------------------      
    This code simply prints out the auto-generated help on the imported module.  In this case it's OGR.

.. code-block:: python
    
    import osgeo.ogr
    print help(osgeo.ogr)
    
Is Ogr Driver Available by Driver Name
------------------------------      
    This code shows if a particular OGR driver is available.  The exact names are the ones used on the OGR Vector Formats page in the "Code" column  ([`web site <http://www.gdal.org/ogr/ogr_formats.html>`_]).  This is the same names returned when you enter ``ogrinfo --formats`` on the command line.  
    
    Code Example Source: [`web site <http://www.gdal.org/ogr/ogr_apitut.html>`_]
    
.. code-block:: python
    
    from osgeo import ogr
    
    ## Shapefile available?
    driverName = "ESRI Shapefile"
    drv = ogr.GetDriverByName( driverName )
    if drv is None:
        print "%s driver not available.\n" % driverName
    else:
        print  "%s driver IS available.\n" % driverName
        
    ## PostgreSQL available?
    driverName = "PostgreSQL"
    drv = ogr.GetDriverByName( driverName )
    if drv is None:
        print "%s driver not available.\n" % driverName
    else:
        print  "%s driver IS available.\n" % driverName
        
    ## Is File GeoDatabase available?
    driverName = "FileGDB"
    drv = ogr.GetDriverByName( driverName )
    if drv is None:
        print "%s driver not available.\n" % driverName
    else:
        print  "%s driver IS available.\n" % driverName
        
    ## SDE available?
    driverName = "SDE"
    drv = ogr.GetDriverByName( driverName )
    if drv is None:
        print "%s driver not available.\n" % driverName
    else:
        print  "%s driver IS available.\n" % driverName
        
        
Get Shapefile Feature Count
---------------------------
    This code example opens a shapefile and returns the number of features in it.  Solution mined from: [`web site <http://www.gis.usu.edu/~chrisg/python/2009/lectures/ospy_slides1.pdf>`_] 



.. code-block:: python

    import os
    from osgeo import ogr

    daShapefile = r"C:\Temp\Voting_Centers_and_Ballot_Sites.shp"

    driver = ogr.GetDriverByName('ESRI Shapefile')

    dataSource = driver.Open(daShapefile, 0) # 0 means read-only. 1 means writeable.

    # Check to see if shapefile is found.
    if dataSource is None:
        print 'Could not open %s' % (daShapefile)
    else:
        print 'Opened %s' % (daShapefile)
        layer = dataSource.GetLayer()
        featureCount = layer.GetFeatureCount()  
        print "Number of features in %s: %d" % (os.path.basename(daShapefile),featureCount)

Iterate over Features
---------------------
 
.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    import os

    shapefile = "states.shp"
    driver = ogr.GetDriverByName("ESRI Shapefile")
    dataSource = driver.Open(shapefile, 0)
    layer = dataSource.GetLayer()

    for i in range(0,layer.GetFeatureCount()):
        feature = layer.GetFeature(i)
        print feature.GetField("STATE_NAME")
       
        
Get Shapefile Fields - Get the user defined fields
---------------------------------------------------
 
    This code example returns the field names of the user defined (created) fields.  

.. code-block:: python

    daShapefile = r"C:\Temp\Voting_Centers_and_Ballot_Sites.shp"

    dataSource = ogr.Open(daShapefile)
    daLayer = dataSource.GetLayer(0)
    layerDefinition = daLayer.GetLayerDefn()


    for i in range(layerDefinition.GetFieldCount()):
        print layerDefinition.GetFieldDefn(i).GetName() 

Create a new Layer from the extent of an existing Layer
-------------------------------------------------------   

.. image:: images/layer_extent.png

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    import os

    # Get a Layer's Extent
    inShapefile = "states.shp"
    inDriver = ogr.GetDriverByName("ESRI Shapefile")
    inDataSource = inDriver.Open(inShapefile, 0)
    inLayer = inDataSource.GetLayer()
    extent = inLayer.GetExtent()

    # Create a Polygon from the extent tuple
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(extent[0],extent[2]) 
    ring.AddPoint(extent[1], extent[2])
    ring.AddPoint(extent[1], extent[3])
    ring.AddPoint(extent[0], extent[3]) 
    ring.AddPoint(extent[0],extent[2]) 
    poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly.AddGeometry(ring)

    # Save extent to a new Shapefile
    outShapefile = "states_extent.shp"
    outDriver = ogr.GetDriverByName("ESRI Shapefile")

    # Remove output shapefile if it already exists
    if os.path.exists(outShapefile):
        outDriver.DeleteDataSource(outShapefile)

    # Create the output shapefile
    outDataSource = outDriver.CreateDataSource(outShapefile)
    outLayer = outDataSource.CreateLayer("states_extent", geom_type=ogr.wkbPolygon)

    # Add an ID field
    idField = ogr.FieldDefn("id", ogr.OFTInteger)
    outLayer.CreateField(idField)

    # Create the feature and set values
    featureDefn = outLayer.GetLayerDefn()
    feature = ogr.Feature(featureDefn)
    feature.SetGeometry(poly)
    feature.SetField("id", 1)
    outLayer.CreateFeature(feature)

    # Close DataSource
    inDataSource.Destroy()
    outDataSource.Destroy()

Save centroids of input Layer to an output Layer
------------------------------------------------

Inspired by: http://www.kralidis.ca/blog/2010/04/28/batch-centroid-calculations-with-python-and-ogr/

.. image:: images/layer_centroids.png

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    import os

    # Get the input Layer
    inShapefile = "states.shp"
    inDriver = ogr.GetDriverByName("ESRI Shapefile")
    inDataSource = inDriver.Open(inShapefile, 0)
    inLayer = inDataSource.GetLayer()

    # Create the output Layer
    outShapefile = "states_centroids.shp"
    outDriver = ogr.GetDriverByName("ESRI Shapefile")

    # Remove output shapefile if it already exists
    if os.path.exists(outShapefile):
        outDriver.DeleteDataSource(outShapefile)

    # Create the output shapefile
    outDataSource = outDriver.CreateDataSource(outShapefile)
    outLayer = outDataSource.CreateLayer("states_centroids", geom_type=ogr.wkbPoint)

    # Add input Layer Fields to the output Layer
    inLayerDefn = inLayer.GetLayerDefn()
    for i in range(0, inLayerDefn.GetFieldCount()):
        fieldDefn = inLayerDefn.GetFieldDefn(i)
        outLayer.CreateField(fieldDefn)

    # Get the output Layer's Feature Definition
    outLayerDefn = outLayer.GetLayerDefn()

    # Add features to the ouput Layer
    for i in range(0, inLayer.GetFeatureCount()):
        # Get the input Feature
        inFeature = inLayer.GetFeature(i)
        # Create output Feature
        outFeature = ogr.Feature(outLayerDefn)
        # Add field values from input Layer
        for i in range(0, outLayerDefn.GetFieldCount()):
            outFeature.SetField(outLayerDefn.GetFieldDefn(i).GetNameRef(), inFeature.GetField(i))
        # Set geometry as centroid    
        geom = inFeature.GetGeometryRef()
        centroid = geom.Centroid()
        outFeature.SetGeometry(centroid)
        # Add new feature to output Layer
        outLayer.CreateFeature(outFeature)

    # Close DataSources
    inDataSource.Destroy()
    outDataSource.Destroy()

Commit message:

Add recipe for getting geometry type as string from a geometry. Close

layers.rst, after:

Layers
=============

Is Ogr Installed
----------------

.. code-block:: python

    try:
      from osgeo import ogr
      print 'Import of ogr from osgeo worked.  Hurray!\n'
    except:
      print 'Import of ogr from osgeo failed\n\n'

View Auto Generated Ogr Help
------------------------------      
    This code simply prints out the auto-generated help on the imported module.  In this case it's OGR.

.. code-block:: python
    
    import osgeo.ogr
    print help(osgeo.ogr)

Get List of Ogr Drivers Alphabetically (A- Z)
-------------------------------------

    It's always driven me a little nuts that the command line ogr2ogr --formats returns a 'random' list of drivers.  This code returns the list of OGR drivers alphabetically from A - Z.  .  
   
.. code-block:: python
    import ogr
    cnt = ogr.GetDriverCount()
    formatsList = []  # Empty List

    for i in range(cnt):
        driver = ogr.GetDriver(i)
        driverName = driver.GetName()
        if not driverName in formatsList:
            formatsList.append(driverName)

    formatsList.sort() # Sorting the messy list of ogr drivers 

    for i in formatsList:
        print i
     
Is Ogr Driver Available by Driver Name
------------------------------      
    This code shows if a particular OGR driver is available.  The exact names are the ones used on the OGR Vector Formats page in the "Code" column  ([`web site <http://www.gdal.org/ogr/ogr_formats.html>`_]).  This is the same names returned when you enter ``ogrinfo --formats`` on the command line.  
    
    Code Example Source: [`web site <http://www.gdal.org/ogr/ogr_apitut.html>`_]
    
.. code-block:: python
    
    from osgeo import ogr
    
    ## Shapefile available?
    driverName = "ESRI Shapefile"
    drv = ogr.GetDriverByName( driverName )
    if drv is None:
        print "%s driver not available.\n" % driverName
    else:
        print  "%s driver IS available.\n" % driverName
        
    ## PostgreSQL available?
    driverName = "PostgreSQL"
    drv = ogr.GetDriverByName( driverName )
    if drv is None:
        print "%s driver not available.\n" % driverName
    else:
        print  "%s driver IS available.\n" % driverName
        
    ## Is File GeoDatabase available?
    driverName = "FileGDB"
    drv = ogr.GetDriverByName( driverName )
    if drv is None:
        print "%s driver not available.\n" % driverName
    else:
        print  "%s driver IS available.\n" % driverName
        
    ## SDE available?
    driverName = "SDE"
    drv = ogr.GetDriverByName( driverName )
    if drv is None:
        print "%s driver not available.\n" % driverName
    else:
        print  "%s driver IS available.\n" % driverName
        
        
Get Shapefile Feature Count
---------------------------
    This code example opens a shapefile and returns the number of features in it.  Solution mined from: [`web site <http://www.gis.usu.edu/~chrisg/python/2009/lectures/ospy_slides1.pdf>`_] 



.. code-block:: python

    import os
    from osgeo import ogr

    daShapefile = r"C:\Temp\Voting_Centers_and_Ballot_Sites.shp"

    driver = ogr.GetDriverByName('ESRI Shapefile')

    dataSource = driver.Open(daShapefile, 0) # 0 means read-only. 1 means writeable.

    # Check to see if shapefile is found.
    if dataSource is None:
        print 'Could not open %s' % (daShapefile)
    else:
        print 'Opened %s' % (daShapefile)
        layer = dataSource.GetLayer()
        featureCount = layer.GetFeatureCount()  
        print "Number of features in %s: %d" % (os.path.basename(daShapefile),featureCount)

Iterate over Features
---------------------
 
.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    import os

    shapefile = "states.shp"
    driver = ogr.GetDriverByName("ESRI Shapefile")
    dataSource = driver.Open(shapefile, 0)
    layer = dataSource.GetLayer()

    for i in range(0,layer.GetFeatureCount()):
        feature = layer.GetFeature(i)
        print feature.GetField("STATE_NAME")
       
        
Get Shapefile Fields - Get the user defined fields
---------------------------------------------------
 
    This code example returns the field names of the user defined (created) fields.  

.. code-block:: python

    daShapefile = r"C:\Temp\Voting_Centers_and_Ballot_Sites.shp"

    dataSource = ogr.Open(daShapefile)
    daLayer = dataSource.GetLayer(0)
    layerDefinition = daLayer.GetLayerDefn()


    for i in range(layerDefinition.GetFieldCount()):
        print layerDefinition.GetFieldDefn(i).GetName() 

Create a new Layer from the extent of an existing Layer
-------------------------------------------------------   

.. image:: images/layer_extent.png

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    import os

    # Get a Layer's Extent
    inShapefile = "states.shp"
    inDriver = ogr.GetDriverByName("ESRI Shapefile")
    inDataSource = inDriver.Open(inShapefile, 0)
    inLayer = inDataSource.GetLayer()
    extent = inLayer.GetExtent()

    # Create a Polygon from the extent tuple
    ring = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbLinearRing)
    ring.AddPoint(extent[0],extent[2]) 
    ring.AddPoint(extent[1], extent[2])
    ring.AddPoint(extent[1], extent[3])
    ring.AddPoint(extent[0], extent[3]) 
    ring.AddPoint(extent[0],extent[2]) 
    poly = ogr.Geometry(ogr.wkbPolygon)
    poly.AddGeometry(ring)

    # Save extent to a new Shapefile
    outShapefile = "states_extent.shp"
    outDriver = ogr.GetDriverByName("ESRI Shapefile")

    # Remove output shapefile if it already exists
    if os.path.exists(outShapefile):
        outDriver.DeleteDataSource(outShapefile)

    # Create the output shapefile
    outDataSource = outDriver.CreateDataSource(outShapefile)
    outLayer = outDataSource.CreateLayer("states_extent", geom_type=ogr.wkbPolygon)

    # Add an ID field
    idField = ogr.FieldDefn("id", ogr.OFTInteger)
    outLayer.CreateField(idField)

    # Create the feature and set values
    featureDefn = outLayer.GetLayerDefn()
    feature = ogr.Feature(featureDefn)
    feature.SetGeometry(poly)
    feature.SetField("id", 1)
    outLayer.CreateFeature(feature)

    # Close DataSource
    inDataSource.Destroy()
    outDataSource.Destroy()

Save centroids of input Layer to an output Layer
------------------------------------------------

Inspired by: http://www.kralidis.ca/blog/2010/04/28/batch-centroid-calculations-with-python-and-ogr/

.. image:: images/layer_centroids.png

.. code-block:: python

    from osgeo import ogr
    import os

    # Get the input Layer
    inShapefile = "states.shp"
    inDriver = ogr.GetDriverByName("ESRI Shapefile")
    inDataSource = inDriver.Open(inShapefile, 0)
    inLayer = inDataSource.GetLayer()

    # Create the output Layer
    outShapefile = "states_centroids.shp"
    outDriver = ogr.GetDriverByName("ESRI Shapefile")

    # Remove output shapefile if it already exists
    if os.path.exists(outShapefile):
        outDriver.DeleteDataSource(outShapefile)

    # Create the output shapefile
    outDataSource = outDriver.CreateDataSource(outShapefile)
    outLayer = outDataSource.CreateLayer("states_centroids", geom_type=ogr.wkbPoint)

    # Add input Layer Fields to the output Layer
    inLayerDefn = inLayer.GetLayerDefn()
    for i in range(0, inLayerDefn.GetFieldCount()):
        fieldDefn = inLayerDefn.GetFieldDefn(i)
        outLayer.CreateField(fieldDefn)

    # Get the output Layer's Feature Definition
    outLayerDefn = outLayer.GetLayerDefn()

    # Add features to the ouput Layer
    for i in range(0, inLayer.GetFeatureCount()):
        # Get the input Feature
        inFeature = inLayer.GetFeature(i)
        # Create output Feature
        outFeature = ogr.Feature(outLayerDefn)
        # Add field values from input Layer
        for i in range(0, outLayerDefn.GetFieldCount()):
            outFeature.SetField(outLayerDefn.GetFieldDefn(i).GetNameRef(), inFeature.GetField(i))
        # Set geometry as centroid    
        geom = inFeature.GetGeometryRef()
        centroid = geom.Centroid()
        outFeature.SetGeometry(centroid)
        # Add new feature to output Layer
        outLayer.CreateFeature(outFeature)

    # Close DataSources
    inDataSource.Destroy()
    outDataSource.Destroy()
